Previously on The Expanse...
You gutter punks. You
screwed the golden goose.
Stay away from ta acqua!
If your girlfriend
logged that distress call
she's going to be living
it down for a long time.
- I did it.
- Please help me.
It's all got to do with her.
You need to take this upstairs.
Maybe. Until then I'll just, uh...
I guess I'll do my pathetic best.
Before she shipped out, she asked
me to hook her up with a data broker.
She was hanging around
some hardcore OPA.
Anderson Dawes.
Julie Mao was one of ours.
Let me worry about her, and
you'll get Filat Kothari.
Go get your justice.
Make it pretty.
We can't resolve the drive
signatures or make any visual IDs.
Somebody has a new fleet of warships.
I'm not a pilot, someone else needs to fly.
I don't think I'm in any condition to...
- Get us out of here!
- You got it.
You will be granted
safe harbor on Tycho.
You have my solemn promise
that you will not be harmed.
I've known guys with causes.
Causes that get people killed.
You don't show up
anywhere without a reason.
I don't work for you fine people anymore.
So, why am I being ambushed?
I need to borrow your spy on Tycho Station.
What for?
To keep an eye on Fred Johnson.
He's over-charging the
Mormons for their toilet seats.
Well, you can't have him.
Why not?
It took me five years to
sheep-dip him in Johnson's outfit,
to steal tech for his competitors.
He's worth a lot of money to me.
What's... Sheep-dip?
I wonder if they have ice
cream in the snack shop?
The answer's no.
I do my patriotic duty by
screwing over Fred Johnson,
isn't that enough?
How's your son, Esteban?
He's up for parole soon.
You're really gonna play that card?
No games, no subterfuge,
just straight for the jugular?
I'd be happy to play
some other time, Carlos,
but the matter is pressing.
He made one mistake...
Then help him move on.
Let me help him.
You know why I quit the intel desk?
I couldn't tell anymore
if I was still working for the good guys.
I'll go get the ice cream,
you make the phone call.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Rocinante, you are cleared
for station dock at Berth Z4.
Please cut your engines and release
your guidance systems to Tycho TC.
Acknowledged, Tycho Station.
You now have control.
_
Prepare for docking clamp capture.
James Holden.
- You son of a bitch...
- Stay where you are.
You either some kind of genius, Mr. Holden,
or you the luckiest
dipshit in the solar system.
Why did you invite us here?
You two are the only witnesses to
a series of catastrophic events.
You could be the key
to stopping all-out war.
We're not the only
witnesses. You were watching.
I've been out of the war
business a long time, son.
I broker peace treaties these days...
Not exactly what you're known for...
You can put those guns away.
Tell the others to come out.
I'll give you safe harbor.
And I'll get rid of that ship for you.
No one's getting rid of our ship.
Martian vessels come through
Tycho on a daily basis.
If they see that frigate parked
there, it's a bad day for me too.
I'm just the messenger,
I have half a platoon of
pissed-off Martian marines
who are just itching for some payback.
Huh.
That's a corvette-class Martian
frigate that typically crews thirty.
I only see two of you.
That tells me that you're
trying hard to hide your numbers.
Tactically, if there were more,
as a show of force you
would've brought them out.
I'm guessing there are two to
four people left on your ship.
And I'm confident that there's
no Martian Navy on board.
If they were, they'd be out
here speaking with me now.
You walked off that ship,
because you're in charge.
At least you think you are...
If I wanted to hurt you,
I would have broadcast your transponder
and your position to the entire system...
Coming here was your only option.
But it was also your best option.
Now, you want to continue to play games,
or shall we talk about
how to help each other?
I'm Lida.
My brother, Kaipo.
Your parents must be proud.
Hey, hey!
You can't do that to him.
He's Star Helix.
I take it then that you
don't want to be famous, huh?
The old EVA helmets
used to burn like that...
The contacts would cook your skin.
Thanks for sharing.
I had to let that
stinking animal Kothari go,
since you weren't interested in him.
We're going to have a
nice long talk, you and I.
How long, depends on you.
Sync and corrections by explosiveskull
www.addic7ed.com
_
Diogo! Hey!
What's taking so long?
Setting the last charge now, uncle Mateo...
Well hurry up, or you'll be
back stealing water on Ceres.
You street rat.
Did you pattern the charges?
Yeah, yeah, just like you said...
Time to make some money, bachemang.
Once all the shooting got
started, it was over pretty quick.
The Martians barely
knew what hit 'em.
The Donnager and the Cant were attacked
by the same class of stealth warships.
You will have to testify.
Testify?
To the UN Security Council.
You mean the one that you and
the OPA aren't allowed into?
You'll open that door for me.
You want to use me to get
yourself a seat at the table?
It's okay to be a pawn, Holden,
so long as you're on the right side.
Maybe you know exactly
where those ships came from.
- Maybe I have no idea.
- Mmm.
It's a pretty big boat
you're building out there.
A small fleet of stealth
ships wouldn't be impossible.
I'm not going to debate with you.
We're going back to our ship now.
I'm afraid you can't go back to the ship.
Sounds like he doesn't like goodbyes.
I'm taking control of the Tachi right now.
The hell you are!
- Freeze!
- Right there!
Those guns can't help you anymore.
Are you sure you want to
find out if that's true?
Put the gun down.
You might want to don a poncho, Holden.
You don't want to test this particular guy.
I've raised and buried
your kind by the hundreds.
Not my kind.
Broken boys, quick to the
trigger, slow on the uptake.
Go ahead, son.
Pull it, bullet will cut right through me,
but there'll be countless OPA brothers
and sisters standing behind me.
They will hunt you to the ends of the Belt.
Holden, tell The Butcher
to call off his men,
or I'll have Alex vent his bloody station.
How's it going out there?
Um, sir,
we have a problem.
What did you find at
the data broker's place?
Some third-rate porn.
I guess your men... I think
they got all the good stuff.
Why did you go back to
Julie Mao's apartment?
I'm gonna come clean.
Embarrassing... But...
I really like her shower.
It's great water pressure.
Nah, hey hey!
Why do you care so much
what happened to this girl?
I take my job...
Very seriously.
You are the station joke,
I did my homework.
Maybe, but Star Helix
knows I'm onto you, so...
You wanna be careful how
far you wanna take this.
Should be in the Black Freighter right now,
buying each other rounds,
talking future plans.
Try it on.
Your head's big enough.
We are fighting for something
precious here, Miller.
Sure, a fatter percentage of the docks.
You even think like an Earther.
You are something, man.
You create a bunch of
chaos, you stir shit up
so you can ride in and save the day, right?
You have no idea how close we are, huh?
I am talking about independence!
Yeah. With you as governor.
It's a great idea.
You know, that Scopuli disaster
is a dead fish on your doorstep.
You keep missing the point!
That's why you gotta make
the Mao case disappear.
The only question is,
why you gotta sacrifice her?
Son of a bitch.
I can't believe I didn't see it before.
Oh.
Detective Miller.
You're in love with Julie Mao.
Yeah.
Detonate already!
I'm ready, I'm ready.
You locked down the net?
Yeah, yeah.
Then why is my money floating away?
Sabang!
Stupid,
good-for-nothing rat.
The net is old.
By the time we secure the haul,
half will be lost.
I'll barely make enough to cover the trip.
Attention Xinglong, this
is MCRN Scipio Africanus
power down and
prepare to be boarded.
Who they want?
Cards are on the table.
I provided a ship for an OPA
recon mission out of Ceres,
which disappeared.
The name of that ship is the Scopuli.
That's right. I need this frigate
to retrieve the lone survivor.
- Lionel Polanski.
- Who?
It's a code name. We received
a set of coordinates from him
a short time after the disaster.
He would know more than anyone else about
what started this and who's behind it.
There's got to be another
ship you can send...
I need a gunship.
It's getting hot out there.
And the OPA's got nothing like this.
I'll pick up your operator.
You're too valuable as a
witness, if you get killed...
The other three saw just as much as I did.
They'll stay and be your witnesses.
We'll all give sworn statements.
I'm sorry. I can't do that.
We're going to be spending a
lot of time staring at each other
across the dock out there.
You and I both want the same thing.
To do right by our people.
Let me do this.
_
Hands where I can see them!
Transporting any weapons?
No, what's the problem, bosmang?
Show us your transponder.
Says here it's expired.
What happened, pebble jockey?
Did you get drunk and
forget to renew your license?
I didn't have the scrip,
kopeng, I had to replace the...
Yeah, you Belters always got an excuse.
We're gonna have to AO-66 you.
When you arrive on Eros,
your cargo will be held under lien
until your fines are paid in full.
Oh, come on, there must be something...
- Hey!
- Leave him alone.
Dzeet! Dzeet! Dzeet! Dzeet!
Why are you doing this?
Impound our haul and there's
nothing left for your taxman.
Oh, are we being too hard on you?
Should we cut you a break?
We are just tryin' to
feed our families, okay?
I'll tell you what I'm gonna do for you...
Absolutely nothing.
What god gives you the
right to life's riches, huh?
You set up your zones and tell
us where we can and cannot go.
You living belly-full,
with your glass palaces,
while half my people are starving to death.
How is this justice?
You Skinnies wanna take credit
for blowin' up the Donnager,
we'll give you justice. With both hands.
What are we gonna blow up the
big Martian warship with, huh?
Little pebbles?
Have a nice day.
Oh?
Hey!
Leave him alone! He didn't mean...
Hey. I went easy on you before.
But now...
You're not gonna pass through the restricted
zone on your way home, "bosmain."
We can't go around. Not
enough fuel! We die for sure.
That's your problem, not mine.
How do you know what's
waiting at those coordinates?
- I don't.
- Neither does Fred Johnson.
And when the felotas hit the
fan, he will wipe his hands clean of you.
That's assuming it's not a
set-up in the first place.
Why would he lie about the Scopuli?
Get himself tangled up in this mess?
You're out of your ever-lovin' mind,
you think you can trust that guy.
Look,
I only committed myself.
Fred Johnson offered to crew me up.
You guys'll be safe here on
Tycho till all this blows over,
then you can go back to your lives.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. You're using his crew?
How do you know he's not going to
space you the second you get out there?
Because you're going to rig the Roci
so it only responds to my command.
For God's sake.
Look, I don't need to trust Fred Johnson.
We both have a gun to each other's head.
So, what is this?
Goodbye?
Nah.
All that's waiting out there
for you is more trouble.
More death. Why are you
so hell-bent, Holden?
Because this is my fault.
What is?
I logged the distress
call on the Cant.
Amos...
I'm glad we cleared this up.
I knew.
Holden did the right thing.
Why didn't you tell me?
I don't know.
You were afraid of me.
You shoulda said somethin'.
So...
Let's talk about Julie Mao.
Is she alive?
She chose to be OPA because she believed
that what we are fighting for is just.
You took an innocent kid and you
forced her to do your dirty work.
No! She came to me. Asked me to help her.
She knew what she was doing.
She was willing to make a sacrifice for us.
It's more than you.
She trusted you,
she put herself in your hands
'cause she couldn't see the blood on 'em.
Just like your sister...
Isn't that right?
Wasn't she like 15 when you
let her die out on the Belt?
Sure. It's part of the
legend you like to leave out.
- Everybody knows that story...
- I doubt that.
You were just stupid kids, right?
Rock-hopping out on the Belt.
And what,
you forgot to check her
magboots or something?
She was your sister.
She relied on you to keep her safe.
Would you like me to
tell you the real story?
I'm sure you've told so many lies about it
you don't even remember what happened.
My sister Athena
was touched by the hand of God.
The most beautiful child in
all the Belt, the smartest.
But she was fragile.
Her bones were like chalk
from spending a lifetime in Zero-g.
She was never going to recover.
An impossible burden for a
dirt-poor family of rock-hoppers.
And when she became too
ill even to travel...
I had three other sisters to think about.
Our family was starving...
So, you killed her...
And that makes me a monster.
There was no scrip to bury her,
so I laid her to rest
in a beautiful bauxite tunnel
that we discovered together.
Do you know it is possible to
cry so hard
that your tears turn to blood?
And living with this pain,
I came to realize that I have millions
of brothers and sisters in the Belt.
I even count you among them.
As I did Julie, an Earther.
So, everybody dies for the cause,
except for you.
Now I'll tell you the truth about Julie.
Just tell me if she's alive.
If she was here right now,
she'd spit in your face.
You're everything she despised.
A Belter who preys on his own kind.
Welwala...
Die as you lived.
That every drop of water on Ceres
has been blood, and
piss and tears and spit,
a hundred times and will
be a thousand times more.
The innocent can
never comprehend this.
Perhaps, they will
comprehend the hail of stones
that will one day come crashing down
through their precious blue skies.
You want us to call you
Sir and Madam, and grovel,
like we are some
second-class citizens.
Well, enjoy your final days in...
...the stars belong to Belters,
the heavens belong to Belters...
Uncle, what are you doing?
What are you doing?
Uncle Mateo, no!
No! No, no, no!
Go on! Go!
- No!
- Get out!
Please! I'll try harder!
I'm sorry. I'll work harder!
Please! I'm sorry!
No!
What are you doing?
Please. Uncle, please!
Please!
Uncle! Please!
Carlos Davila just reamed
me out for half an hour.
He's a private citizen, Chrisjen,
you can't go squeezing his berries.
I politely asked to
borrow his spy on Tycho.
Why are you interested in Fred Johnson?
He has blood on his hands
and wants redemption.
While Earth and Mars throw
sand in each other's faces,
the OPA rises in the Belt.
Tycho spins up asteroids.
The Donnager was destroyed
by advanced stealth warships.
And Fred Johnson is building the
largest spacecraft in human history.
He'd have to be siphoning off
resources on a massive scale.
The OPA smuggler we captured
was carrying stealth composites.
That's not a coincidence.
Are you going to shut me down?
Fred Johnson turned his back on Earth.
The OPA killed your son.
You sure this isn't personal?
You're damn right it's personal.
All right.
You keep me in the loop.
Of course.
I'm Daniel.
I'm not interested, Daniel.
Tell me. How do they treat you here?
The others say it's better than most.
That bucker, ogling you?
He's packing a knife on his left hip.
Thanks.
What are you, their union rep?
I grew up in places like this.
You grew up? I wouldn't have figured that.
Must've been rough.
Ah, it's fine.
I guess you must have been as happy
as a puppy with two peckers, right?
I didn't... I didn't mean it like that.
Like what?
I'm going to stop
talking. Two more, please!
It's an honest living.
It's more honest than most.
And you can tell a lot about a
place by how they treat their people.
Fair enough.
Why don't you spend some scrip?
Go on, it'd be good for you.
- Ah, I can't.
- Oh, come on!
You're not married.
What makes you say that?
Like I said, I grew up in places like this.
I was married.
Out on a run, all I could think
about was getting back home.
And lying in my bed,
all I could dream about
was getting back out here.
Big brass said I didn't
have what it takes to
fly their badass gun-ships...
But I'll tell you one thing, flying
the Rocinante back there,
that was just about the
best feeling I have ever had.
I'll do it.
The ship will look like a
run-of-the-mill gas freighter.
Don't fly too close, but
don't try to avoid it.
The Martian patrols won't
give you a second look.
- The drive signature?
- We're altering that too.
A lot of Martians gave their
lives getting us onto this ship.
In the heat of the battle...
They fought to get you
off the Donnager?
Wow...
Are there any bodies
we need to take care of?
Lieutenant Lopez. He's in the rear hold.
He died for us.
I'll make sure his body
is returned to Mars.
- He's a fellow soldier.
- Thank you.
You all right?
Relax. You rigged the fail-safe, right?
They try to access any
areas that they shouldn't,
and the Roci's
core will self-destruct.
I'm confident you got us covered.
You feeling confident?
Come on, let's let them do their thing and
we'll go get a drink in the crew lounge.
You sure?
I could use a drink.
We'll charge it to Fred's tab.
Uncle Mateo! Please!
You don't need to do this!
A man's gotta stand up.
Uncle Mateo!
A man has got to stand up!
Come back!
We'll be okay.
We can only live so long...
With a boot to our necks!
Uncle Mateo!
You don't need to do this! We'll be okay!
Xinglong, you are on
unauthorized intercept course.
- Adjust trajectory immediately...
- It's okay, Diogo.
- Someone will find you out there.
- We'll be okay!
Someday, things gonna change.
We'll be okay, Uncle. We'll be okay!
A man's gotta stand up.
To Shed.
Always generous.
Mmm.
Thoughtful...
Sometimes, a whiny little prick.
We're going to miss you, pal.
Wherever you are,
I hope no one there
needs medical attention.
Yam seng!
Mmm.
To those brave, crazy bastards
who got us off the Donnager.
Hey.
A little respect.
I have nothing but respect.
Then what's your problem?
Gung-ho military hypnotized by a uniform,
fanatics, religious freaks.
Those Marines could've
saved themselves,
gone home to their families,
instead of coming back for us.
Yeah.
Well, it did take some convincing...
I know it was because of you.
Why did you come back for us?
Well, you were only there because of me.
Mmm.
Why?
Would you have come back for me?
At the time? With all those bullets flying?
Probably not.
So, what's next for Naomi Nagata?
When all this blows over?
Nawe Nada.
I'm using my last remaining brain cells,
to try and kill my last
remaining brain cells.
So let's get to work on that, shall we?
I got it.
I never killed anyone before.
Right...
You'll be all right.
Ugh. I'm gonna be sick.
Oh...
Hey, you're all right.
It's just a reaction.
You know, my third year on the job,
I caught this Skinny,
he was from the Lower Levels.
He was coming out of a drug-den,
he grabbed his old lady by the hair,
he was waving his piece around.
Drink.
And, um...
You know how they tell you in basic,
you're either somebody who can
pull the trigger or you ain't.
Well,
you and me are the same.
First shot,
I killed him, all right.
But it wasn't the blood or the
iron smell of it that got me.
It was that little girl in the window,
watching me.
You know...
The only guy I ever killed...
You know, every time
you remember something,
your mind changes it, just a little,
until your best and your worst memories,
they're your biggest illusions.
My advice is just forget it.
Make yourself forget it.
I appreciate that,
but it's terrible advice.
Yeah, probably.
Um...
What are you doing?
Found this at Julie's.
Let's see what's on it.
You're late.
- What is this?
- Oh, spare us the speech.
The ship's ready.
Are you?
I guess we lost Amos.
Oh, he'll be here in a sec.
Okay.
I guess I'll put on some coffee.
You people drive a hard bargain.
You got our recorded statements.
We'll bring your Lionel
Polanski home, if he's out there.
In return, I want you
to help me find someone.
Someday, I'll come to you with a name.
No questions asked.
I'll do what I can.
_
Jesus, Miller. Should I even ask?
I figured it out...
Most of it, anyway.
Here...
It's not dormant,
it's giving off heat.
I'm seeing molecular reactions...
Vibrational resonances
all across the spectrum...
Can you hear me?
Look at this thing.
What the hell am I looking at?
You're looking at, I don't
know, some kind of bio-weapon?
Where'd this recording come from?
Phoebe, that's what I think.
- Phoebe Station.
- I meant where'd you get it?
Julie Mao.
She bought that from a data-broker.
She gave it to Dawes.
Dawes crewed up this black-bag ship
which vanishes with all souls aboard.
And then, the data-broker ends up dead,
and ships start blowing up.
We know who's pulling the strings?
Well, let's play it through.
Scientists on Phoebe discover something,
something big that would
tip the balance of power.
The OPA gets wind of it, they
send a crew out to steal it.
The mission goes south.
Which leaves
someone with a lot of power,
a lot of resources, who'll
do anything to keep it quiet.
Including starting a war.
And that man... He holds the key.
Radiation levels are
off the charts...
We're ready for the next phase.
We need to get a sample off Phoebe,
now!
You tell anyone about this?
No. Just you.
What about this? Copies?
No. It's encrypted.
You can't copy it.
Erase Detective Miller's case
files and cancel all his clearances.
What are you doing?
You're fired.
Dawes...
He bought you.
Get out.
You're in his pocket.
What, did he buy himself
a whole police force?
Have it your way.
Security.
What does it go for these
days, huh? Undying loyalty?
I'm tired of speaking to a child.
Yeah, well, I'm tired
of smelling this shit.
You know that?
Help Mr. Miller find the door.
If he gives you any problems,
feel free to shoot him.
I'm sorry.
Thanks.
Tycho Control, this is
gas-freighter Rocinante
requesting clearance for departure.
Understood, Rocinante, your
flight plan has been filed and logged.
Be advised you'll be crossing
three Martian trade zones.
Likelihood of encountering
MCRN patrols is high.
Sorry, that's the best we could
do. You are clear to disengage.
Thank you kindly, partner.
Sync and corrections by explosiveskull
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org